Hello and welcome back to the course on machine learning in today's tutorial we're going to talk about
the K nearest neighbors algorithm.
All right so let's get started.
So let's imagine that we have a scenario where we have two categories already present in our data set
so we've identified two categories and one is carrier one on the left which is red card two is green
on the right.
And for simplicity's sake we're just going to take into consideration two variables or two columns in
our data set so all of this grouping is happening based on these two columns x1 and x2.
And now let's say we add a new data point into our data set.
The question is should it fall into the red category or should fall to the green category.
How do we decide that.
So how do we classify this new data point to a cluster of fires.
As a Red data point or a green data point and that's where the nearest neighbors algorithm will come
to assist us.
At the end of performing this algorithm we'll be able to identify whether it's a red or green point
and in this case the point turned out to be red.
So how does the K nearest neighbor algorithm work.
How did it do that.
Well we're going to build a step by step rule guides to the K and then and after we've built it we're
going to actually perform it manually to see how it works.
And as you'll see is a very very simple algorithm.
All right so the first step is to choose a number k of neighbors that you're going to have in your algorithm
so you go to you have to identify whether K is equal to 1 2 2 3 5 or some other number.
And one of the most common default values for k is 5 and Eckstine to take the K nearest neighbors of
the new data point according to their Euclidean distance.
Now here you can if you don't have to use Euclidean distance you can use other distances such as a manhattan
distance or any other distances that you might be considering.
But in most cases Euclidean distance is so we're to stick to those.
So once you've taken the nearest neighbors among these K neighbors you need to count the number of data
points in each category.
So how many data points fell into one category to the other carrier and so on if you might even have
more than two categories in your data set.
So you just need to calculate how many fall into each category and then you need to assign the new data
point to the category where you counted the most neighbors.
As simple as that.
That's why it's called Kinnear's neighbors.
And then your model is ready as it is it's a very simple algorithm and moral which is going to do a
manual exercise right now to really solidify this knowledge.
So let's move onto that.
So here we've got the new data point has been added to our scatterplot as we saw previously.
How do we find the nearest neighbors of this new datapoint.
Well let's have a look at the Euclidean distance that we're going to use so quickly and distance is
a very basic type of distance that we define in geometry it's the one we use in geometry.
And basically if you have two points over here one and two then the distance between the two points
is measured according to this formula.
So x 2 minus X the difference between the x coordinates and then squared plus the difference between
the y coordinates squared and then you take a square root out of all that.
And that is basically if you look at it this way it's a right angled triangle as suiting you to in.
Cathedral's and you squaring it you take in other theaters and it's growing it's taking you adding them
up you're taking a square root and that gives you the length of the high poisoner's.
So there we go.
That's how Euclidean distance work.
Again you could use any type of distance but this is the geometrical distance and this is what we're
going to stick to.
So basically on a scatterplot a two dimensional kind of polygon just draw the lines and see what is
closer.
So here on your data point how are going to identify which other closest five neighbors.
So basically we just look at them and we see the distances here so we can see that's the closest one
that's probably the second closest ONE-THIRD closest fourth closest fifth closest So let's outline those
.
There we go.
So now all we have to do is step three among these Cockayne neighbors count the number of data points
in each category is in category 1 in the red when we have 3 neighbors in category 2 we have two neighbors
.
So therefore step 4 are assigned the new data point to the category where you counted the most neighbors
That means we need to assign it to the read category as simple as that.
There we go.
Now we have classified this new point and your model is ready.
It's a it's a very straightforward algorithm.
One of the simplest you can think about it so it's very good to get this section started with a simple
example like that.
And also we're going to have a look at some practical exercises and Hudlin We'll show you around aren't
Python.
Eloquent singer in XM.
And until then in Germany machine learning